`__slots__` is a class variable that is usually assigned a sequence of strings that are variable names used by instances. The `__slots__` declaration allows us to explicitly declare data members, causes Python to reserve space for them in memory, and prevents the creation of `__dict__`  and `__weakref__` attributes. It also prevents the creation of any variables that aren't declared in `__slots__`.
Slots are more efficient in terms of memory space and speed of access, and a bit safer than the default Python method of data access. By default, when Python creates a new instance of a class, it creates a `__dict__` attribute for the class. The `__dict__` attribute is a dictionary whose keys are the variable names and whose values are the variable values. This allows for dynamic variable creation but can also lead to uncaught errors. For example, with the default `__dict__`, a misspelled variable name results in the creation of a new variable, but with `__slots__` it raises in an AttributeError.
Default values for variables declared in `__slots__` cannot be set using class attributes. If default values are desired, they must be set in the `__init__(self)` definition. However, it is not necessary to assign all variables a value in the `__init__` function. As long as it has been declared in `__slots__`, a variable can be assigned a value using dot notation after the class has been instantiated.
Add `'__dict__'` to `__slots__` to get dynamic assignment. With `'__dict__'` in slots we lose some of the size benefits with the upside of having dynamic assignment and still having slots for the names we do expect.